[IDP] - Gitx and Branch cut releases (#10857)
harness/developer-hub: release-notes/internal-developer-portal.md

### Bug Fixes and Improvements

* **Enhancements to Git Experience (GitX) Entity Views and Behavior**
  Several improvements have been made to streamline how Git-synced entities are displayed and managed within IDP:

  * The **Edit Entity** page now features a refined Git details header for improved clarity.
  * A **branch selector** has been added to the **Entity Details** view, allowing users to view configurations across branches while continuing to treat the default branch as the source of truth.
  * Scorecard computations are now consistently based on the **default branch only**, aligning with runtime behavior.
  * Fixed a bug where `connector_ref` was incorrectly passed as an empty string during **Harness Code Repo** setup; this is now handled safely.
    *\[IDP-5579, IDP-5477, IDP-5493, IDP-5816]*

* **New Default Role: `IDP Workflow Executor`**
  A new out-of-the-box role called **`IDP Workflow Executor`** is now available at all scopes (Account, Org, and Project). This role includes `View` and `Execute` permissions for IDP Workflows and allows platform teams to grant workflow execution access without creating custom roles.

>   This change is part of a **Platform/Access Control service release**, not the core IDP module release.

Author: Also @sandeepa-kv-jois  it is deployed on prod0 , what kind of updates we are talking about here?

>   This change is part of a **Platform/Access Control service release**, not the core IDP module release.

Author: link it if it gets on releas enote

| **Version** | **prod0** | **prod1** | **prod2** | **prod3** | **prod4** | **prodeu1** |
| ----------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | ----------- |
| [2025.07.v1](/release-notes/internal-developer-portal#july---202507v1)                               | ✅        | ✅         | ✅         | ⏳         | ⏳         | ⏳           |
| [2025.06.v1](/release-notes/internal-developer-portal#june---202506v1)  | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅          |
| [2025.05.v1](/release-notes/internal-developer-portal#-releasing-harness-idp-20-beta---may-202505v1) | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅        | ✅          |

## July - [2025.07.v1]

###  [New feature] Harness Git Experience (GitX) — Now Bi-Directional

> Harness IDP's Git Experience has been upgraded to offer full [**bi-directional sync**](../docs/internal-developer-portal/git-experience/gitx-journey#bi-directional-sync-between-harness-and-git). You can now manage **Scorecards, Workflows, Layouts, and Software Catalog configuration** directly from your Git repository — while still retaining visibility and control within the IDP UI.

Reviewer: Only Catalog entities and Workflows are supported as GitX. We don't have GitX for Scorecards or Layout.

Key highlights:

* Changes made via the IDP UI can also be pushed back to Git (if Git sync is enabled).
* From the **Catalog page**, you can now **switch branches** and preview configurations before they go live — ideal for testing or working with feature branches.
* Only the default branch will be active and reflected in IDP runtime.

> * When you configure a Git repository for use with GitX, a webhook is automatically added to enable real-time sync from Git to IDP — no manual webhook setup needed.

Reviewer: I think the key new features to highlight are

- Any changes made in Git will now be reflected on IDP (if webhook is already enabled)
- If you are using Pull Requests to make changes to your Catalog YAML, you can switch the branch in IDP to preview your changes.

Everything else is already a feature e.g. changes made via IDP can be pushed to git. So maybe, just do a recap of "what already exists in GitX - ..."

This unlocks GitOps-style workflows, where Git remains the source of truth, and IDP becomes the real-time visual dashboard.

> ###  [New feature] Git-Based Service Ingestion
> 
> You can now onboard services via Git using a streamlined, declarative ingestion flow.
> 
> What’s new:
> 
> * When services are ingested from Git, **custom metadata** defined in your repo is now **visually displayed in the Edit Entity flow**.
> * These properties are **read-only** and cannot be edited from the frontend.
> * They are also **not embedded into the main YAML**, keeping configuration clean and version-controlled.
> 
> This gives teams visibility into derived metadata and streamlines registration without manual edits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  [New feature] Visualize Ingested Properties

When you use Catalog Ingestion API to push custom metadata, they are not committed back to the YAML file but are part of the final entity metadata shown in IDP. You can now visualize all ingested properties in the entity YAML view.

<insert a screenshot>
```

> More details: [Visualizing Ingested Metadata](https://harness.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/IDP/pages/22528984069/Visualizing+Ingested+Metadata+in+the+YAML+editor)

Reviewer: They can't read our wiki 😂 , please remove

> ###  [New feature] Bitbucket Improvements and Delegate
> 
> * **Bitbucket Connector Support for API Key Authentication**
>   You can now configure Bitbucket connectors to use **API key authentication** in IDP Git Experience. This enables higher API rate limits and improved sync performance — especially beneficial when computing metrics for Scorecards.
> 
>   > To use **Bitbucket API access for score computation**, you must upgrade your Harness Delegate to **version `25.06.86202` or newer**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###  [New feature] Increased Bitbucket API Rate Limits

Bitbucket Git Connector in IDP now also supports API Key Authentication which allows for higher API rate limits when used in syncing files or Scorecards computation.

If you are facing Bitbucket API rate limit issues, please update your Bitbucket connector with a new one using API Key authentication.

You must also upgrade your Harness Delegate used in the Git connector to **version `25.06.86202` or newer**.
```

  Several improvements have been made to streamline how Git-synced entities are displayed and managed within IDP:

  * The **Edit Entity** page now features a refined Git details header for improved clarity.
  * A **branch selector** has been added to the **Entity Details** view, allowing users to view configurations across branches while continuing to treat the default branch as the source of truth.
  * Scorecard computations are now consistently based on the **default branch only**, aligning with runtime behavior.
  * Fixed a bug where `connector_ref` was incorrectly passed as an empty string during **Harness Code Repo** setup; this is now handled safely.
    *\[IDP-5579, IDP-5477, IDP-5493, IDP-5816]*

* **New Default Role: `IDP Workflow Executor`**
  A new out-of-the-box role called **`IDP Workflow Executor`** is now available at all scopes (Account, Org, and Project). This role includes `View` and `Execute` permissions for IDP Workflows and allows platform teams to grant workflow execution access without creating custom roles.
  This change is part of a **Platform/Access Control service release**, not the core IDP module release.
  *\[IDP-5542]*

> * **Fixed Ingested Properties Display in Catalog UI**
>   Resolved an issue where ingested properties were not being properly displayed in the Catalog UI. The system now correctly renders metadata derived from Git-based ingestion, improving visibility during entity editing.
>   *\[IDP-5882]*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **Error Handling for Entity Import from Harness Code Repo**
  Fixed a backend issue that caused entity import to fail when using **Harness Code Repo** with Git Experience enabled by default. The system now gracefully handles this scenario without requiring manual configuration toggles.
  *\[IDP-5855]*

* **YAML Editor Now Shows Latest Saved State**
  Resolved an issue where the UI YAML editor reverted to a stale version after clicking “Save Changes.” This could cause users to overwrite prior edits unintentionally. The editor now properly reflects the latest saved YAML after each update.
  *\[IDP-5851]*

* **Owner Field Display Flicker Resolved in Catalog Table**
  Fixed a UI glitch where user group names in the "owner" field of the Catalog table would intermittently flicker between full text and ellipsis. Styling has been corrected for better consistency.
  *\[IDP-5792]*

> * **Bitbucket Cloud API Token Support for Scorecards via Delegate**
>   Backend and delegate updates have been introduced to support **Bitbucket Cloud API token**–based authentication when fetching metadata for Scorecards.
>   Ensure your delegate version is upgraded to **`25.06.86202` or newer** to enable this capability.
>   *\[IDP-5777, IDP-5776]*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

we already mentioned this above
